This article describes how to extract insights from customer conversations at a call center by using Azure AI services and Azure OpenAI Service. Use these real-time and post-call analytics to improve call center efficiency and customer satisfaction.

Dataflow

    A phone call between an agent and a customer is recorded and stored in Azure Blob Storage. Audio files are uploaded to an Azure Storage account via a supported method, such as the UI-based tool, Azure Storage Explorer, or a Storage SDK or API.

    Azure AI Speech is used to transcribe audio files in Batch mode asynchronously with speaker diarization enabled. The transcription results are persisted in Blob Storage.

    Azure AI Language is used to detect and redact personal data in the transcript.

    For batch mode transcription and personal data detection and redaction, use the AI services Ingestion Client tool. The Ingestion Client tool uses a no-code approach for call center transcription.

    Azure OpenAI is used to process the transcript and extract entities, summarize the conversation, and analyze sentiments. The processed output is stored in Blob Storage and then analyzed and visualized by using other services. You can also store the output in a datastore for keeping track of metadata and for reporting. Use Azure OpenAI to process the stored transcription information.

    Power BI or a custom web application that's hosted by App Service is used to visualize the output. Both options provide near real-time insights. You can store this output in a customer relationship management (CRM), so agents have contextual information about why the customer called and can quickly solve potential problems. This process is fully automated, which saves the agents time and effort.

Components

    Blob Storage is the object storage solution for raw files in this scenario. Blob Storage supports libraries for languages like .NET, Node.js, and Python. Applications can access files on Blob Storage via HTTP or HTTPS. Blob Storage has hot, cool, and archive access tiers for storing large amounts of data, which optimizes cost.

    Azure OpenAI provides access to the Azure OpenAI language models, including GPT-3, Codex, and the embeddings model series, for content generation, summarization, semantic search, and natural language-to-code translation. You can access the service through REST APIs, Python SDK, or the web-based interface in the Azure OpenAI Studio.

    Azure AI Speech is an AI-based API that provides speech capabilities like speech-to-text, text-to-speech, speech translation, and speaker recognition. This architecture uses the Azure AI Speech batch transcription functionality.

    Azure AI Language consolidates the Azure natural-language processing services. For information about prebuilt and customizable options, see Azure AI Language available features.

    Language Studio provides a UI for exploring and analyzing AI services for language features. Language Studio provides options for building, tagging, training, and deploying custom models.

    Power BI is a software-as-a-service (SaaS) that provides visual and interactive insights for business analytics. It provides transformation capabilities and connects to other data sources.

