This article describes an architecture for processing documents of various types. It uses the Durable Functions extension of Azure Functions to implement the pipelines that process the documents.

Workflow

    The user provides a document file that the web app uploads. The file contains multiple documents of various types. It can, for instance, be a PDF or multipage TIFF file.
        The document file is stored in Azure Blob Storage.
        The web app adds a command message to a storage queue to initiate pipeline processing.

    Durable Functions orchestration is triggered by the command message. The message contains metadata that identifies the location in Blob Storage of the document file to be processed. Each Durable Functions instance processes only one document file.

    The Scan activity function calls the Computer Vision Read API, passing in the location in storage of the document to be processed. Optical character recognition (OCR) results are returned to the orchestration to be used by subsequent activities.

    The Classify activity function calls the document classifier service that's hosted in an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster. This service uses regular expression pattern matching to identify the starting page of each known document and to calculate how many document types are contained in the document file. The types and page ranges of the documents are calculated and returned to the orchestration.



Note

Azure doesn't offer a service that can classify multiple document types in a single file. This solution uses a non-Azure service that's hosted in AKS.

The Metadata Store activity function saves the document type and page range information in an Azure Cosmos DB store.

The Indexing activity function creates a new search document in the Cognitive Search service for each identified document type and uses the Azure AI Search libraries for .NET to include in the search document the full OCR results and document information. A correlation ID is also added to the search document so that the search results can be matched with the corresponding document metadata from Azure Cosmos DB.

End users can search for documents by contents and metadata. Correlation IDs in the search result set can be used to look up document records that are in Azure Cosmos DB. The records include links to the original document file in Blob Storage.


Components

    Durable Functions is an extension of Azure Functions that makes it possible for you write stateful functions in a serverless compute environment. In this application, it's used for managing document ingestion and workflow orchestration. It lets you define stateful workflows by writing orchestrator functions that adhere to the Azure Functions programming model. Behind the scenes, the extension manages state, checkpoints, and restarts, leaving you free to focus on the business logic.
    Azure Cosmos DB is a globally distributed, multi-model database that makes it possible for your solutions to scale throughput and storage capacity across any number of geographic regions. Comprehensive service-level agreements (SLAs) guarantee throughput, latency, availability, and consistency.
    Azure Storage is a set of massively scalable and secure cloud services for data, apps, and workloads. It includes Blob Storage, Azure Files, Azure Table Storage, and Azure Queue Storage.
    Azure App Service provides a framework for building, deploying, and scaling web apps. The Web Apps feature is an HTTP-based service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. With Web Apps, you can develop in .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python. Applications easily run and scale in Windows and Linux-based environments.
    Azure AI services provides intelligent algorithms to see, hear, speak, understand, and interpret your user needs by using natural methods of communication.
    Azure AI Search provides a rich search experience over private, heterogeneous content in web, mobile, and enterprise applications.
    AKS is a highly available, secure, and fully managed Kubernetes service. AKS makes it easy to deploy and manage containerized applications.

