This article describes an Azure architecture that you can use to replace costly and inflexible forms processing methods with cost-effective and flexible automated PDF processing.

Workflow

    A designated Outlook email account receives PDF files as attachments. The arrival of an email triggers a logic app to process the email. The logic app is built by using the capabilities of Azure Logic Apps.
    The logic app uploads the PDF files to a container in Azure Data Lake Storage.
    You can also manually or programmatically upload PDF files to the same PDF container.
    The arrival of a PDF file in the PDF container triggers another logic app to process the PDF forms that are in the PDF file.
    The logic app sends the location of the PDF file to a function app for processing. The function app is built by using the capabilities of Azure Functions.
    The function app receives the location of the file and takes these actions:
        It splits the file into single pages if the file has multiple pages. Each page contains one independent form. Split files are saved to a second container in Data Lake Storage.
        It uses HTTPS POST, an Azure REST API, to send the location of the single-page PDF file to AI Document Intelligence for processing. When Azure AI Document Intelligence completes its processing, it sends a response back to the function app, which places the information into a data structure.
        It creates a JSON data file that contains the response data and stores the file to a third container in Data Lake Storage.
    The forms processing logic app receives the processed response data.
    The forms processing logic app sends the processed data to Azure Cosmos DB, which saves the data in a database and in collections.
    Power BI obtains the data from Azure Cosmos DB and provides insights and dashboards.
    You can implement further processing as needed on the data that's in Azure Cosmos DB.

Components

    Azure AI services is a category of Azure AI products that use Azure AI services, task-specific AI, and business logic to provide turnkey AI services for common business processes. One of these products is Azure AI Document Intelligence, which uses machine learning models to extract key-value pairs, text, and tables from documents.
    Azure Logic Apps is a serverless cloud service for creating and running automated workflows that integrate apps, data, services, and systems.
    Azure Functions is a serverless solution that makes it possible for you to write less code, maintain less infrastructure, and save on costs.
    Azure Data Lake Storage is the foundation for building enterprise data lakes on Azure.
    Azure Cosmos DB is a fully managed NoSQL and relational database for modern app development.
    Power BI is a collection of software services, apps, and connectors that work together so that you can turn your unrelated sources of data into coherent, visually immersive, and interactive insights.

