Dataflow

The following dataflow corresponds to the preceding diagram. The dataflow describes how the unstructured JFK Files dataset passes through the AI Search skills pipeline to produce structured and indexable data.

    Unstructured data in Azure Blob Storage, such as documents and images, is ingested into AI Search.

    To initiate the indexing process, the document cracking step extracts images and text from the data and then enriches the content. The enrichment steps in this process depend on the data and type of skills that you select.

    Built-in skills based on the Azure AI Vision and Azure AI Language APIs provide AI enrichments such as image optical character recognition (OCR), image analysis, text translation, entity recognition, and full-text search.

    Custom skills support scenarios that require more complex AI models or services. Examples include Azure AI Document Intelligence, Azure Machine Learning models, and Azure Functions.

    After the enrichment process is complete, the indexer saves the enriched and indexed documents in a search index. Full-text search and other query forms can use this index.

    The enriched documents can also project into a knowledge store, which downstream apps like knowledge mining apps or data science apps can use.

    Queries access the enriched content in the search index. The index supports custom analyzers, fuzzy search queries, filters, and a scoring profile to tune search relevance.

    Applications that connect to Blob Storage or to Azure Table Storage can access the knowledge store.

Components

This solution uses the following Azure components.
AI Search

AI Search indexes the content and powers the user experience in this solution. You can use AI Search to apply prebuilt AI skills to content. And you can use the extensibility mechanism to add custom skills, which provide specific enrichment transformations.
Azure AI Vision

Vision uses text recognition to extract and recognize text information from images. The Read API uses the latest OCR recognition models and is optimized for large, text-heavy documents and noisy images.

The legacy OCR API isn't optimized for large documents but supports more languages. The accuracy of OCR results can vary based on the quality of the scan and the image. This solution uses OCR to produce data in the hOCR format.
Language

Language uses text analytics capabilities like named entity recognition and key phrase extraction to extract text information from unstructured documents.
Azure Storage

Blob Storage is REST-based object storage for data that you can access from anywhere in the world through HTTPS. You can use Blob Storage to expose data publicly to the world or to store application data privately. Blob Storage is ideal for large amounts of unstructured data like text or graphics.

Table Storage stores highly available, scalable, structured, and semi-structured NoSQL data in the cloud.
Azure Functions

Functions is a serverless compute service that you can use to run small pieces of event-triggered code without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure. This solution uses a Functions method to apply the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) cryptonyms list to the JFK Files as a custom skill.
Azure App Service

This solution builds a standalone web app in Azure App Service to test, demonstrate, and search the index and to explore connections in the enriched and indexed documents.
